well howdy there internet people is bub
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
a guy named rooster and emergency
preparedness now the first time I ran
into rooster he I want to say he was
working with a Cajun Navy after Harvey
and Bearpaw tactical nautical had kind
of drafted him and he was doing relief
work there good guy one of those people
that had always showed up in the
embodiment of rule 303 he had the means
therefore he had the responsibility and
when something went wrong he rolled out
he did relief work during Florence he
was active out on the rez a very very
good guy even though according to people
at Bearpaw he couldn't wrap a wound for
anything but he was a very very good job
we lost him on the 18th he's gone I
can't think of a more fitting memorial
for him then discussing a little bit
about emergency preparedness because
everybody needs to know something about
it doesn't matter if you're a soccer mom
or you're an ex Ranger you need to stay
up-to-date you need to have your stuff
together because there are people who
will come to help but the more
self-reliant you are the less stress
you're putting on them because they can
focus on those people who could not help
themselves so if you have the ability
you have the means you have the
responsibility to put it together and
take care of yourself so as more and
more people have found out about my
background I'm getting more and more
questions related to survival in various
situations and never want this channel
to turn into a survivalist channel
an insurgency channel or anything like
that there are channels out there for
that that's not really what I want to do
here however I will start putting up
some videos and not putting them into
the newsfeed just uploading them and
then they won't go out to anybody and
I'll put them in a playlist that covers
some basic skills and then if you're on
Facebook I'll share the playlist every
once in a while and you guys can go
through and watch it
but to start off with because this isn't
a specialized stuff this is something
everybody needs we're gonna talk about
putting together an emergency bag
everybody needs one everybody
everybody I can't stress this enough
when people think about this stuff they
think about guys who are preparing for
doomsday
hurricanes wildfires earthquakes
blizzards there's something in your area
that can happen very very quickly that
you're gonna need to be prepared for and
when I go through this list it's very
simple it is very very simple and most
people are like well I have all of this
stuff great where is it and then you see
them go well it's in my house well this
is in the junk drawer this is in my
bathroom this is great get it all
together and put it in one spot because
during an emergency you're not gonna
have time to run around and pick
everything up the other question that
I've gotten a lot especially after I did
the video on protect first aid kits do
you do pre-packed bug-out bags exist not
really there are companies that make
some generic base versions they're not
they're not great you'll do better
putting one together on your own now if
you just don't have the time yes by all
means order one having that is better
than having nothing but you'll you'll be
better off putting one together for
yourself because it'll be tailored to
your needs
my my family
you know we're talking about emergency
we're talking about seven people and two
dogs and three the people are under the
age of five that is that's probably
different than yours that's why the
pre-packed bug-out bags aren't such a
great idea
because they give you a false sense of
security if I pick up one of those the
supplies they're not gonna last a day so
there's that and then there are
companies who will literally go out and
tailor make your bag for you problem is
these services are thousands of dollars
and you can put it together yourself for
a few hundred bucks and that's getting
into that that's really putting together
a good back but the basics what do you
need a first aid kit a good one okay not
the blue box you pick up at Walmart that
says 153 pieces and 148 of them are
different size band-aids if they can be
fixed with a band-aid it probably would
have fixed itself on its own
you need a real first aid kit I will
link the video I did on first aid kits
and put that in the comment section then
you also need your meds if you are on
meds of any kind he had to take
regularly you need a supply of those in
this bag because pharmacies aren't going
to be open you know after Michael here
took weeks before pharmacies were really
got back up and running so you need to
have a supply of that on hand okay food
now when you think of mergency and food
you think MREs meals ready-to-eat use by
the Army do you need those no of course
not
one they're pretty expensive I mean when
you break it down per mil that gets
- - they take up a lot of space that's
that's not what you need unless you just
happen to have a warehouse you can store
them in now most people today like to
eat fresh and organic and all that stuff
it's fantastic you have a specialized
diet that's great but unless you need it
to survive you need to forget about that
get canned goods get rice get things
that last a really long time that are
things you wouldn't normally eat and
that they have a long shelf life because
then you can put them in your pantry and
they'll stay there because they're not
really you're not gonna be like whoo I
really want to eat that no it's just
gonna hang out that way you have a
back-up food supply and again you're not
looking for the tastiest thing in the
world you're just looking for something
that will keep you alive and it is easy
to cook and because you're doing that
ya'll said need a can opener water
unless you know how to distill water and
purify water yourself you need to get
some bottled water you don't have to go
crazy with it a couple of cases that are
three bucks at Walmart what we'll
probably do you depending on how big
your your family size is now aside from
that you can also get tablets to purify
water you can get filters which are
really cool like the LifeStraw or the
Sawyer but you need a supply of water
because depending on the type of
emergency the water in your house may
not be working fire and fire includes a
flashlight okay now most most
emergencies the wood around you is wet
even if you're in a rural area pulling
up the wood
they just got rained on by a hurricane
and that's not going to be much good
it's gonna be really hard to burn no see
any some charcoal bags stuff like that
especially for the first you know a
couple of days as the
dries out you can use that because odds
are you will need more you know you'll
need more than a couple of days or
because it's gonna take a while to get
the electric back on and you need to
know how to build a fire you need
lighters you need fire strikers that
type of thing matches waterproof matches
would be great
then you need shelter you need to assume
that the structure you're in is gonna be
damaged tarps you know if you don't want
to go out and spend a bunch of money on
a tent tarps or those little mylar the
silver blankets they're not great but
they work and that's what you have to
focus on so you need a little bit of 550
cord rope it's thin rope and then you
need a knife and when I say that people
are like get a K bar get whatever I will
tell you from personal experience I have
a K bar I have a fair burn and after
Hurricane Michael what did I use the
most my Swiss Army you don't necessarily
need a fighting I fulfilled knife you
need something that'll be able to cut
open bags and you know stuff like that
now that's the basics that's what you
have to have to survive it beyond that
there's things that can make it easier a
hatchet you know a grow things like this
make it easier but these are the items
you have to have to survive gather them
all up throw them in a book bag and put
in your pantry next to the canned goods
and the water okay beyond that you need
an evacuation plan you need to know
where you're gonna go and then you need
a backup for that evacuation plan a lot
of times when people put one of these
together they're like well I'm gonna go
over to my Uncle Billy's house and uncle
Billy is 40 miles away and the hurricane
hits you both well now what are you
gonna do you need to have to head in two
different directions
that that's where you need to start out
and once you start you'll think of other
things you need or want depending on
your particular situation you know me
personally we have to have dog food on
hand because we have dogs you know we
need to baby formula things like this
and you have to keep this stuff on hand
and everything is different for every
family and every skill set you know if
if you graduated sere and actually went
to the school you probably don't need as
much as the guy who works for Allstate
but you still need to have some of
yourself together so that's that's your
starting point and then from from there
we're gonna put up some videos that will
help if you don't know how to build a
fire if you don't know how to rig up a
shelter these types of things will get
it all out there but the key thing here
is to remember that emergencies by their
very definition you don't know they're
coming so get it together anyway it's
just a fault y'all have a good night